S3 permissions: split into metadata only and data + metadata (#4352)
treeverse/lakeFS: docs/setup/storage/s3.md

# Prepare Your AWS S3 Bucket

1. From the S3 Administration console, choose `Create Bucket`.
2. Make sure that you:
   1. Block public access.
   2. Disable Object Locking.

> ## Metadata only (minimal permissions)

Reviewer: Worth adding that this mode is useful for users looking to access data using lakeFSFS and using the SDKs, not suitable for S3 gtw, UI download/upload, etc.

> lakeFS requires permissions to interact with the `_lakefs` namespace under your bucket, in which the metadata

Reviewer: ```suggestion
lakeFS requires permissions to interact with the `_lakefs` prefix under your storage namespace, in which the metadata
```

The following is a minimal bucket policy. To add it, go to the `Permissions` tab, and paste it as :

```json
{
  "Id": "<POLICY_ID>",
  "Version": "2012-10-17",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "<STMT_ID>",
      "Action": [
         "s3:GetObject",
         "s3:PutObject",
         "s3:ListBucket",
         "s3:GetBucketLocation"
      ],
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Resource": ["arn:aws:s3:::<STORAGE_NAMESPACE>/_lakefs", "arn:aws:s3:::<STORAGE_NAMESPACE>/_lakefs/*"],
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": ["arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:role/<IAM_ROLE>"]
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

Replace `<STORAGE_NAMESPACE>` with your [storage namespace](../../understand/model.md#concepts-unique-to-lakefs) which will be in the form of `<BUCKET_NAME>/<PATH>` (`PATH` can be empty).
Replace `<ACCOUNT_ID>` and `<IAM_ROLE>` with values relevant to your environment.
`IAM_ROLE` should be the role assumed by your lakeFS installation.

Alternatively, if you use an AWS user's key-pair to authenticate lakeFS to AWS, change the policy's Principal to be the user:

```json
 "Principal": {
   "AWS": ["arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:user/<IAM_USER>"]
 }
```

### Usage

> By setting this policy you'll be able to perform only metadata operations through lakeFS, meaning that you'll not be able

Reviewer: The section should probably lead with this paragraph.

to directly access your S3 bucket while performing metadata operations through lakeFS on the objects in that bucket.

## Data & Metadata (extended permissions)

If you plan to transfer data using lakeFS, you'll need to extend the [minimal permissions](#metadata-only-minimal-permissions)
with the following policy:

```json
{
   "Id": "<POLICY_ID>",
   "Version": "2012-10-17",
   "Statement": [
      {
         "Sid": "<STMT_ID>",
         "Action": [
            "s3:GetObject",
            "s3:PutObject",
            "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
            "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts",
            "s3:ListBucket",
            "s3:GetBucketLocation",
            "s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads"
         ],
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Resource": ["arn:aws:s3:::<STORAGE_NAMESPACE>", "arn:aws:s3:::<STORAGE_NAMESPACE>/*"],
         "Principal": {
            "AWS": ["arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:role/<IAM_ROLE>"]
         }
      }
   ]
}
```

Notice that this time you allow lakeFS to access your storage namespace. This is necessary to upload/download objects to/from
your underlying bucket namespace.

### Usage

> By setting this bucket policy you'll be able to perform metadata operations as well as to upload/download objects to/from your bucket using lakeFS.

Reviewer: again would lead the section with this paragraph :)

# Prepare Your AWS S3 Bucket

1. From the S3 Administration console, choose `Create Bucket`.
2. Make sure that you:
   1. Block public access.

>    2. Disable Object Locking.

Reviewer 2: 1. "Object Lock"
2. Think you need to have link for both terms to the aws website

         }
      },
      {
         "Sid": "<STMT_ID2>",
         "Action": [
            "s3:ListBucket",
            "s3:GetBucketLocation",
            "s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads"
         ],
         "Effect": "Allow",
         "Resource": ["arn:aws:s3:::<BUCKET>"],
         "Principal": {
            "AWS": ["arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:role/<IAM_ROLE>"]
         }
      }
   ]
}
```
* Replace `<STORAGE_NAMESPACE>` with your [storage namespace](../../understand/model.md#concepts-unique-to-lakefs) which will be in the form of `<BUCKET_NAME>/<PATH>` (`PATH` can be empty).
* Replace `<ACCOUNT_ID>` and `<IAM_ROLE>` with values relevant to your environment.
* Replace `<BUCKET>` with the **bucket** that lakeFS is managing.
* Replace `<STMT_ID1>`, `<STMT_ID2>` and `<POLICY_ID>` with string IDs of your choice.
* `IAM_ROLE` should be the role assumed by your lakeFS installation.

Alternatively, if you use an AWS user's key-pair to authenticate lakeFS to AWS, change the policy's Principal to be the user:

```json
 "Principal": {
   "AWS": ["arn:aws:iam::<ACCOUNT_ID>:user/<IAM_USER>"]
 }
```

## Metadata Permissions Policy (minimal permissions)

> lakeFS requires permissions to interact with the `_lakefs` prefix under your storage namespace, in which the metadata

Reviewer 2: interact => manage data? just to explain better we are not just listing.

objects are stored ([learn more](../../understand/versioning-internals.md#constructing-a-consistent-view-of-the-keyspace-ie-a-commit)).  

> By setting this policy you'll be able to perform only metadata operations through lakeFS, meaning that you'll **not** be able

Reviewer 3: Can we emphasize this even more?  I worry that people will try "minimal permissions" (say, because they're easier to ask from your security team), but then run into difficulties.

In particular, given that the section ends "create your first lakeFS repository", giving tied-down permissions hints that the audience might not be a good match for minimal permissions.
